---
sidebar_position: 15
title: Meetings
---

import Disclaimer from '../\_disclaimer.mdx';

<Disclaimer />


# Meetings

UNTP development team meetings are held weekly at alternating times to accomodate participants from different timezones. 

Each meeting will generally work through open [issues](https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/uncefact/spec-untp/pulls). 

Previous meeting dates, recordings, transcripts, and minutes are summarised below with the most recent meeting at the top.

## Next Meetings

 
The next meeting is 8am UTC 22 August 2024 - [Join here](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87319408152?pwd=dTdyOUU5b1dzdDdjZDZVNFMzSGZLUT09)
The following meeting is 9pm UTC 28th August 2024 - [Join here](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85091806131). 

## Previous Meetings

|Meeting|Summary|Recording|Transcription|
|---|---|---|---|
|2024-08-15| [The meeting focused on refining digital product passports, facility records, and conformity assessment schemes while establishing a working group to develop the business case pages.](#2024-08-15-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/4aCZG5zqAMVtI7wSYUFLsiWTWBrUnBU54WHuq5UL99BbtXc_n_2IzPOHfX7yUXWy.H-f8GsYaQm4RUyUI)|[treanscript](../../meetings/2024-08-15-Recording.txt)
|2024-08-01| [The meeting focused on refining the business case for the UNTP, discussing the inclusion of emissions and circularity performance in digital product passports, and balancing simplicity with the need for reliable data to encourage voluntary adoption.](#2024-08-01-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/GWtQbYEYvwLllNWX_MU3sDngPkcl73prtAnNrsZ-BUKof611JFmf_SfpjjM-BHar.XJrZ23Mu-s3EkZiH)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-08-01-Recording.txt)|
|2024-07-25| [The meeting focused on updates from recent presentations in Geneva, a planned demo on TrustGraphs, reviews of multiple pull requests, discussions on various issues including human observations as sensors, and setting action items for updating digital product passport pages and creating a glossary for standards and acronyms.](#2024-07-25-meeting-summary) |[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/rXhYqvNX6fcC6acRfBmWGb5Yfe1tNemDuDhCNCdJjemMrUKiWHUTsnI9fOHQOUjg.ElNsOY95VnBDv5QO)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-07-25-Recording.txt)|
|2024-07-17| [The meeting discussed integrating business experts, collaboration with CENELEC on global standards, and reviewing a significant pull request to enhance data model consistency and governance.](#2024-07-17-meeting-summary) |[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/9yfJtJ-BFGkrEEYemfpxJU-FhLilK6iMdWjk5-hao8Hvx8uBF5d_bR05WMc1GQIo.5OQR4eACNiJRyUNE)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-07-17-Recording.txt)
|2024-07-04| [The meeting focused on reviewing PRs for digital product passports, discussing the integration of JSON-LD and JSON Schema for transparency graphs, and planning next steps for refining and testing the models.](#2024-07-04-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/aDNOqKQ6itVCWtOlezhyhs4epYW6jiU6B7ZSKB4pOg5mMvH_rwOFWHblkd8vIg6v.xw2yXaIkKZbwyRSW)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-07-04-Recording.txt)|
|2024-06-27| [The meeting focused on reviewing and addressing public comments on Recommendation 49, planning the consolidation of these comments over the weekend, introducing a new digital identity anchor credential, and discussing the governance and versioning of standards.](#2024-06-27-meeting-summary))| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/YSHGiEQEKosYGKgkhtcFr68qpnVtuLGrYMUBueSvgETyaZZ7B9oUT6dMPFDH5gdu.U3JwPcN8cEahYQbx)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-06-27-Recording.txt)|
|2024-06-19| [The meeting focused on aligning implementation tools and conformity credentials with VCDM, renaming digital link resolver to identity resolver, restructuring the site, and discussing the use of the Jargon tool for generating context files.](#2024-06-13-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/huqG1vXNf21SH4fXNDzPPR4fIqg-OI0X3y0CeMpwRIfw6w6vf3nho1dExIoqIGOb.9G_tdVSmRB-eufKg)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-06-19-Recording.txt)|
|2024-06-13| [TThe meeting focused on reviewing and merging key pull requests, discussing the UNTP architecture and methodology, and planning actions for schema and context file alignment.](#2024-06-13-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/R6x_ui0ZMeb7JwlERt_Vj3Ag7YIt8fJ_2e-AXZt_0xeQLY5_oma5pguUYvKqvhaN.r97B1NuWbPqM1ec2)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-06-13-Recording.txt) |
|2024-06-05| [The meeting focused on improving meeting participation, managing transcription and summary processes, handling JSON schema and JSON-LD context differences, addressing challenges with semantic interoperability, and establishing principles for managing context files.](#2024-06-05-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/Vfcr6ZV7Bw0Z8uTKyM1_P8nLkpKaZU0VBLCH9Hlu4xRWbfD8tE5_gL6F87Ny7u3Y.jX5z3_867OAXwB3l)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-06-05-Recording.txt) |
|2024-05-30 | [The meeting focused on addressing pull requests, aligning with EU right-to-repair regulations, and discussing the challenges and strategies for maintaining and verifying digital product passports within the supply chain.](#2024-05-30-meeting-summary) | [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/vd5oKvWwlRDVlxImzoovy7VsocYbTZgTf5bwKjPuruXUBhPvWJodg24FAD_MLqps.9E3v0xVpCeyefeqD) | [transcript](../../meetings/2024-05-30-Recording.txt)| 
|2024-05-23| [The Working Group discussed updates to the digital product passport sample file, terminology adjustments, and the adoption of a "transparency graph" to better align with the VC data model and enhance data validation and provenance.](#2024-05-23-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/SdwSmtENQawZpdXpnurPv5wkP4L-mg2pjbRdzK1wi2itXXkgXbe6OBT4RqImwD5m.KKXfqVY1njdUt3ax)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-05-23-Recording.txt) |
|2024-05-16| [In the meeting, the team discussed updates to project examples and data models, alignment with international standards, and strategies for maintaining interoperability and accurate mappings in linked data while preparing for upcoming pilot implementations.](#2024-05-16-meeting-summary) |[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/B4wZX-BYXPWg0tuDWSotj572qmUKWOHF0l4k2EFiLI_A7_V83gMATKN_-Nfx9sNR._aXbdvOi2fICOFRy)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-05-16-Recording.txt)|
|2024-05-09| [The meeting focused on aligning digital product passport models with the VC data model, removing scoring elements to simplify the structure, and discussing the implementation of trust graphs and multilingual support using governed overlays.](#2024-05-09-meeting-summary) |[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/eABzv6OBR_sjL3y9LgHzaVgKchOM8oyZjdS2GnM63Lzanf1yr0kcEAAppJ9sPRDc.6883MbcV4-aA3GPY)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-05-09-Recording.txt)|
|2024-04-25 | [The meeting focused on reviewing and processing pull requests, assigning stale issues, and emphasizing broader collaboration within the group, with key discussions on traceability event schema updates and the verification of identifiers.](#2024-04-25-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/8QIKuM-X89PbBR7dVxag34wEhR6P2152HDkv0TwHNAj_nldDc_T73Ngkf3mKAU6T.SqXk0F1TscOaMYZ1)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-04-24-Recording.txt) |
|2024-04-18| [The April 18, 2024, meeting focused on streamlining specification sections, reviewing and merging several pull requests, and discussing key issues related to verification and trust graphs, with commitments to create examples and improve meeting efficiency.](#2024-04-18-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/yLKR1_JwcBlaKM2fSzd1eXZ05cSsD2Qyvnj0u4KjrRGaom6dDq_TM6aKPpe04Uct.anqfPC0BPiHwfb1u)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-04-18-Recording.txt) |
|2024-04-11| [The meeting focused on discussing industry use cases for the Digital Product Passport, trust and credential verification methods, and agreeing on future tasks and pilot projects, with an emphasis on more active use of Slack for ongoing discussions.](#2024-04-11-meeting-summary))|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/RaLiDGP2pyCmOAPFqpJRcEnF9ojg8WabMv1L2xuKSHoKlAJCyCW3F_AZcvyVPptx.N2Z6iGWG3RjymbqN)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-04-10-Recording.txt)  |
|2024-04-04| [The meeting focused on refining digital product passports and verifiable credentials, emphasizing interoperability, traceability, and the development of clear business requirements to guide technical decisions.](#2024-04-04-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/zVeXVEPoDTQ47d6_rczVyrNDGiD6Vc21fy64MkDh2a4165B59cZ4ZIqCA1oF2gMX.htabo2zwpxjDMvmI)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-04-04-Recording.txt) |
|2024-03-28| [The meeting focused on discussing and refining the digital product passport (DPP) structure, addressing the challenges of integrating claims and evidence at different levels, and planning further updates and reviews to ensure its practical implementation.](#2024-03-28-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/HrpLjWU_cLtjo-gHIAs9xjSRIm_NzfVhxzld18XPPYMQKSpwcWo_b_H_7RRrwiwD.QqsvfDxuKkcwmxZD?startTime=1711569572000)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-03-27-Recording.txt)|
|2024-03-14| [The team discussed the successful submission of the policy document, agreed on weekly meetings, reviewed technical specifications and PRs, and demonstrated GitHub contribution processes.](#2024-03-15-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/fdrIhDXrEvwLcB5v08kdraTfC_7ywRWeYFa-J-LTpGxnCDdxVM6iwyQze_P2BX_z.c7dLspw0q6KCGQ0e?startTime=1710399547000)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-03-15-Recording.txt) |
|2024-02-29|[The team discussed updates from Europe, aligned on the structure of recommendations and challenges in their document, and set a plan for finalizing the document for submission by the end of the week.](#2024-02-29-meeting-summary) |[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/KQlvFMg2SSlNxsExQJhqzvVaRJSLUPv5SO2W6ze9qqd_Dqpos4blNxAELBbXan-f.z26h2PCKv-krbiX8)| [transcript](../../meetings/2024-02-29-Recording.txt)|
|2024-02-15|[The meeting focused on refining the policy document draft by incorporating feedback, simplifying technical language, and aligning with global frameworks to prepare for final review and public release.](#2024-02-15-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/FHQ1wz0jlb5cRl8mGeZXgYHE_jzbosvnTqBJCsxtxsdsGt_BJGiVx0gywOnj2vua.9B0mR7dX6nBcVzDg)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-02-15-Recording.txt) |
|2024-02-01|[The meeting focused on refining the structure and content of the policy document, discussing the sustainability pledge, addressing collaboration challenges in value chains, and planning the next steps for finalizing the draft for public consultation.](#2024-02-01-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/ZvEFJYTwbM9ER-gZ4jX6_4-gviurC4P7Kn2WgYnIfahG3mLx77hz7NMM_c8284h5.s3UwWFYpeCIt6aMr)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-02-01-Recording.txt)|
|2024-01-25|[The meeting focused on refining the structure and content of the policy document, discussing the sustainability pledge, addressing collaboration challenges in value chains, and planning the next steps for finalizing the draft for public consultation.](#2024-01-25-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/XJ-SF0jKOj8BRMDStAWU2caoGfcxhW17ulwLAwhsLFfwOUt30eaQg5G92EEknvcm.z1USKwSJ38o6aYkC) |[transcript](../../meetings/2024-01-25-Recording.txt)| 
|2024-01-18|[The meeting focused on reviewing GitHub issues, demonstrating verifier experiences, discussing schema context, developing a sustainability vocabulary, handling versioning and implementation profiles, and planning for industry-specific extensions of UNTP.](#2024-01-18-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/oPEDPSpZGLBBP5qykEBDaG5NxxMrQu_snm3NmiqZQuGhBVxlWv5bf-70jeuqMvd5.S_8jH8Vk8IW57B0X)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-01-18-Recording.txt)|
|2024-01-11|[The meeting focused on reviewing the registration status, introducing the structure of the GitHub repository for technical specifications, discussing key sections and their alignment with existing standards, and planning to split into separate technical and policy teams for focused work.](#2024-01-11-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/jX87C2PZ55iY3hFW-5L2rroXL7HoGY20Qg_m2h0B6a92_u6nk7tKkvfUKfIW6HLp.c_0QNnRPl6anrzyW?startTime=1704956458000)|[transcript](../../meetings/2024-01-11-Recording.txt)|
|2023-12-14|[The meeting focused on revising the structure of Recommendation 49, enhancing communication strategies, inviting contributions, and planning technical content development for implementation, with follow-up actions and scheduling outlined.](#2023-12-14-meeting-summary)| [video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/gh8BWTuMrZL0TOka76YVHwbZ_ZTIPhCJTn4LJv7YbxhlK4ZOudb24I3J9t9m9zCE.v6Di5lRXOLHSLQMy)|[transcript](../../meetings/2023-12-14-Recording.txt)|
|2023-11-30| [The meeting focused on refining communication strategies and restructuring Recommendation 49 to align with previous UN recommendations, emphasizing flexibility, implementability, and stakeholder engagement.](#2023-11-30-meeting-summary)|[video](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/3QJpW_xq7ljVf5UTWKtz_gCYrTO6cP5ZlsNZKhNccA0bY9iSfPcaFP6crO7jlFg.uotFEZa-l-bUgyI9)|[transcript](../../meetings/2023-11-30-Recording.txt)|

## 2024-08-15 Meeting Summary

**Date**: August 14, 2024  
**Attendees**:  
- **Steve** (Speaker 1)  
- **Phil** (Speaker 2)  
- **Virginia** (Speaker 4)  
- **Zach** (Speaker 5)  
- **Patrick** (Speaker 3)  
- **Harley** (Speaker 13)  
- **Todd Taylor** (Speaker 7)  
- **Bree** (Speaker 8)

**Key Discussion Points**:

1. **Pull Request Review (Phil's Updates)**:
   - Phil discussed the simplification of terminology in the pull request. His changes primarily involved correcting typos and substituting GS1 references with corresponding ISO/IEC standards for event tracking and business vocabularies. This was done to align politically and avoid implying that GS1 identifiers are mandatory for using EPCIS.
   - Steve and others approved the pull request, agreeing to merge it as it was a simple update.

2. **ISO and UN Involvement in Global Digital Passport Standards**:
   - Steve mentioned an upcoming meeting at ISO to review a candidate project proposed by a Chinese standards authority to develop a global digital passport standard. He was invited to co-chair this initiative, potentially representing both the UN and ISO. The group discussed the significance of this project and the potential implications of having a UN co-chair involved.
   - Phil provided additional context, mentioning the Vienna Memorandum, an agreement between ISO and CEN-CENELEC to avoid duplication of efforts in standard development. He also noted GS1’s interest in participating in the project.

3. **New Digital Facility Record Proposal**:
   - Steve introduced the idea of adding a new credential type, a **Digital Facility Record (DFR)**, to the UN Transparency Protocol (UNTP). This record would focus on the facility itself rather than the product and could be used to track sustainability assessments at the facility level.
   - Virginia and Phil supported the idea, with Virginia suggesting the term "Facility Profile" to better represent the data. The group discussed how this could streamline sustainability reporting by making facilities first-order objects rather than secondary attributes of products.

4. **Challenges with Product Passport Updates**:
   - Zach raised concerns about updating digital product passports (DPPs) after they have been issued, such as adding post-sale repair events or certifications. The group acknowledged that while updates are crucial, there are challenges with ensuring that only authorized entities can modify the passport.
   - Steve proposed the idea of allowing certain events to be added to a product passport by authorized third parties, like certified repairers or recycling plants, using a delegated authority model.

5. **Formation of a Working Group**:
   - A new working group was formed, led by Zach, to explore solutions for managing updates to digital product passports. The group will work on defining the conditions under which updates can be made and will consider different approaches to identity resolution and authorization.

6. **Conformity Assessment Scheme Clarification**:
   - Bree raised a question regarding the linkage between conformity assessment schemes and regulations within the digital product passport framework. Steve clarified that in the context of product conformity, an assessment can reference multiple standards or regulations, bundled together in a scheme.
   - The group discussed how this framework might need to be adapted for regulatory permits and other credentials outside of product conformity.

**Action Items**:
- **Phil** and **Zach** to collaborate on a working group to explore digital product passport updates.
- **Steve** to create a proposal for the Digital Facility Record and present it for further review.
- **Bree** and **Patrick** to revisit the mapping of assessment schemes to regulations for conformity credentials and report back on potential updates to the framework.

**Conclusion**:
The meeting focused on refining standards around digital product passports, facility records, and conformity assessment schemes. The formation of a working group will drive further exploration of issues related to product passport updates and maintaining data integrity across complex supply chains.

## 2024-08-01 Meeting Summary

**Date:** August 1, 2024

**Speakers:**
- **Steve** (Host)
- **Martin Pompery** (Speaker 2)
- **Zach** (Speaker 3)
- **Christophe** (Speaker 4)
- **Virginia** (Speaker 5)
- **Nancy** (Speaker 6)
- **Phil** (Speaker 7)
- **Juliet** (Speaker 8)

**Key Points:**

1. **Introduction and Attendance:**
   - Steve began the meeting, noting the recording and summary availability.
   - Martin Pompery introduced himself as a co-founder of the SINA Foundation, focusing on carbon transparency protocols with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.

2. **Business Case for the UNTP:**
   - Steve presented an initial contribution to the business case for the UNTP, highlighting the costs and benefits for potential implementers.
   - The business case was divided into three parts:
     - Costs and benefits for individual supply chain actors or regulators.
     - Costs and benefits for communities.
     - Reporting the value and cost of implementations for benchmarking.

3. **Feedback on Business Case:**
   - Christophe agreed with the categories but questioned the final product's specificity.
   - Virginia emphasized the need for cost-benefit arguments for public authorities and not-for-profits.
   - Nancy noted the importance of differentiating between pilot and long-term participation.

4. **Emissions and Circularity Performance in Digital Product Passports:**
   - Steve discussed adding emissions and circularity performance to digital product passports.
   - Emissions performance would include high-level carbon footprint data with scope and reference standards.
   - Circularity performance would measure linear flow index and utility, reflecting recycled content and product durability.

5. **Challenges and Considerations:**
   - Martin and Christophe highlighted the complexity and variability in measuring carbon footprints.
   - Zach questioned the governance structure for adding summary boxes and emphasized aligning with sustainable development goals.
   - The balance between simplicity for ease of implementation and the need for detailed, reliable data was a recurring theme.

6. **Future Steps:**
   - Agreement to merge the initial business case content and continue refining it.
   - Continued deliberation on representing frameworks like the Pathfinder Framework in digital product passports.
   - Emphasis on simplicity to encourage voluntary adoption while ensuring reliable and comparable data.

**Action Items:**
- Steve to merge the initial business case contribution and iterate based on feedback.
- Further discussion on the appropriate level of detail for emissions and circularity performance in digital product passports.
- Consideration of additional examples and practical applications to test the proposed structures.

**Next Meeting:**
- Focus on refining the business case and exploring practical examples of implementing the digital product passport framework.

**Conclusion:**
The meeting concluded with acknowledgment of valuable feedback and a commitment to ongoing collaboration to achieve a balanced and implementable framework.

## 2024-07-25 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Steve (Speaker 1)
- Phil (Speaker 2)
- Luis (Speaker 3)
- Suzanne (Speaker 4)
- Michael (Speaker 7)
- Virginia (Speaker 8)
- Zach (Speaker 5)
- Brett (Speaker 6)
- Marcus (Speaker 10)
- Vinayak (Speaker 9)
- Chris (mentioned)
- Gerhard (mentioned)
- Vladimir (mentioned)

**Agenda:**
1. Review of Previous Meetings and Updates
2. Discussion on TrustGraphs Demo
3. Pull Requests Review
4. Issues Discussion

**Key Points:**

**1. Review of Previous Meetings and Updates:**
- **Steve:** Recapped the presentations given at the recent forum and plenary sessions, highlighting the positive reception and support received, except for a minor objection from the European standards organization.
- Discussed expanding the group to include more people from non-technical backgrounds in sustainability and the potential for collaboration with CEN and ISO on new projects.

**2. Discussion on TrustGraphs Demo:**
- **Nis:** Inquired about a planned demo on TrustGraphs.
- **Steve:** Mentioned that Harley, who was supposed to present, is preparing a more refined demo incorporating recent standards, scheduled for two weeks later.

**3. Pull Requests Review:**
- **Suzanne's Pull Request:**
  - **Steve:** Suggested Suzanne review the latest content and update her pull request accordingly.
  - **Suzanne:** Agreed, mentioning she is still learning and appreciated the feedback.
- **Phil's Pull Requests:**
  - **Phil:** Made minor corrections to the naming of the W3C standard and clarified the terms VC and VCDM.
  - **Phil:** Added substantial content on global uniqueness and resolvability, including some necessary corrections.
- **Steve's Pull Request:**
  - **Steve:** Presented updates to the digital product passport page, making it more implementer-friendly with examples and snippets.
  - Discussions were held on further improvements, including explaining color codes in diagrams and fixing URLs and date formats.

**4. Issues Discussion:**
- **Sustainability Vocabulary Design:** Ongoing discussions on how to represent various standards and regulations meaningfully.
- **Units of Measure:** Phil confirmed that the current use of UN Rec20 codes is satisfactory.
- **Reference Standards Page:** Discussion on creating a separate page for reference standards and acronyms.
- **Human Observations as Valid Sensors:** Zach discussed the need for guidance on incorporating human observations in low digital maturity environments.
- **General Issues:** Several older issues raised by Gerhard and Vladimir were reviewed for potential closure.

**Next Steps:**
- **Steve:** Will address the feedback received on the digital product passport page and update the conformity credential page similarly.
- **Vinayak:** Volunteered to map the GBA's digital product passport data model to the UNTP framework.

**Action Items:**
1. **Suzanne:** To review steve's updates to her proposed changes
2. **Steve:** To fix issues on the digital product passport page and update conformity credentials.
3. **All:** To create a glossary page for standards and acronyms.
4. **Zach:** To incorporate feedback into discussions on human observations as sensors.
5. **Vinayak:** To map the GBA digital product passport data model to UNTP.

**Conclusion:**
The meeting concluded with thanks to all participants and a note that the next meeting will focus on further pull requests and issues.


## 2024-07-17 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Steve (Speaker 1)
- Jason (Speaker 2)
- Virginia (Speaker 2)
- Phil (Speaker 2)
- Zack (Speaker 2)
- Other unidentified speakers

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Meeting Logistics and Technical Issues:**
   - Steve welcomed participants and acknowledged technical issues faced by Virginia.
   - Virginia requested a list of acronyms to better understand emails and documents.

2. **Review of Recent Forum and Plenary Sessions:**
   - Steve reviewed the recent UNTP forum and plenary sessions, highlighting the presentations on VCs, security, language vocabularies, and business models.
   - Positive feedback and increased volunteer participation were noted.
   - Discussions on separating technical work from business use cases and engaging business experts from the UNECE Team of Specialists on Sustainable Value Chains.

3. **Concerns from CENELEC and Collaboration Opportunities:**
   - CENELEC, the European Standards Body, expressed concerns about potential duplication of work with the UNTP.
   - Robust discussion ensued, with other member states (USA, Canada, Australia, Singapore) supporting a global standard.
   - Proposal to collaborate with CENELEC to ensure interoperability and avoid duplication.
   - Discussion on lobbying the European Commission to support the UNTP's global standard approach.

4. **Integrating Business Experts into Technical Sessions:**
   - Suggestions on how to integrate business experts into technical sessions, either by inviting them to specific meetings or having dedicated sessions for business input.

5. **Pull Request Review and Data Model Updates:**
   - Steve presented a significant pull request addressing multiple issues and reorganizing business objects into a separate vocabulary for better consistency and reuse.
   - Discussion on the importance of proper data structure for creating transparency graphs in supply chains.
   - Request for a detailed walkthrough of the data model to help team members understand the changes and contribute effectively.

6. **Tooling and Versioning for Context Files and Vocabularies:**
   - Introduction of a deployment pipeline for versioned vocabularies and context files to ensure stable and robust implementations.
   - Emphasis on the need for good governance and tooling to maintain consistency and prevent breaking changes in issued credentials.

7. **Next Steps and Action Items:**
   - Plan to write a response to the German delegation, engaging with the European Commission for support.
   - Agreement to focus the next meeting on a deep dive into the data model and its associations.
   - Encouragement for team members to review the merged pull request and provide feedback.

**Meeting Conclusion:**
- Steve thanked everyone for their participation and contributions.
- The meeting concluded with a positive note on the ongoing implementations and the significant progress being made.

## 2024-07-04 Meeting Summary

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Steve)
- Speaker 2 (Patrick)
- Speaker 3 (Joe)
- Speaker 4 (Marcus)
- Speaker 5 (Anne)
- Speaker 6 (Mark)
- Speaker 7 (Other Participants)

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Introduction and Agenda:**
   - Steve welcomed participants and reiterated the meeting recording policy and IP contributions disclaimer.
   - Mentioned the upcoming UNCFACT forum and plenary, highlighting sessions involving UNTP.

2. **New Participants:**
   - Mark, Rocky, and Tomas from Canada introduced themselves as potential implementers in the plastics value chain.
   - Anne and Dow from Canada also introduced themselves, working on digital product passports.

3. **Pull Request Reviews:**
   - **Digital Product Passport Update:**
     - Suzanne's PR suggesting a single unique identifier for products instead of an array was discussed.
     - Agreement to merge after minor adjustments (e.g., removing the 's' from identifiers).
   - **Trust Graphs and Wallets:**
     - Suzanne's PR on trust graphs and wallet presentations was not merged.
     - The team agreed to avoid technical dependencies on wallets, focusing instead on a publish and discover architecture.

4. **Discussion on JSON-LD and JSON Schema:**
   - Steve shared insights on the use of JSON-LD and JSON Schema for managing vocabularies and credentials.
   - Emphasis on making life easier for implementers by providing clear schemas and context files.
   - The goal is to construct meaningful transparency graphs for verifiers.

5. **Conceptual Model and Transparency Graph:**
   - Discussion on the conceptual model showing relationships between entities like products, organizations, and facilities.
   - The importance of identifiers and the relationship between entities was emphasized.
   - The aim is to create a transparency graph that can be easily consumed and interpreted.

6. **Future Steps:**
   - Plans to finalize and publish updated models for digital product passports, conformity credentials, and traceability events.
   - Encouragement for participants to review and provide feedback on the proposed changes.

**Action Items:**
- **Steve:** Finalize and merge the PR for the single unique identifier and update the digital product passport model.
- **Team:** Review and provide feedback on the proposed updates to the models and context files.
- **Steve:** Prepare pull requests to align models with the discussed conceptual framework.

**Next Steps:**
- Continue refining the models and schemas to ensure they are implementable and interoperable.
- Prepare for testing the models with various extensions and real-world use cases.


## 2024-06-27 Meeting Summary

**Date:** June 27, 2024

**Participants:**
- Steve
- Gerhard
- Zach
- Susanne
- Harley
- NIS
- Virginia

**Agenda:**
1. Review of Public Comments on Recommendation 49
2. Timeline and Plan for Addressing Comments
3. Discussion on Specific Comments
4. Digital Identity Anchor Credential
5. Governance and Versioning of Standards

**Key Points:**

1. **Introduction and General Updates:**
   - Steve welcomed everyone and emphasized the importance of contributions to the project.
   - The public review period for Recommendation 49 has concluded, and comments have been circulated via email.

2. **Review of Comments on Recommendation 49:**
   - Comments varied from editorial to substantive, with significant input from Gerhard.
   - The team has a weekend to draft responses and update the document before the plenary meeting in two weeks.
   - Steve asked for volunteers to help review and respond to the comments. Zach and Speaker 2 offered assistance.

3. **Discussion on Specific Comments:**
   - Gerhard suggested prioritizing substantive comments over editorial ones.
   - Some comments highlighted confusion between transparency and traceability in the document's title and content.
   - The team plans to consolidate and prioritize comments, creating a response log for internal review over the weekend.

4. **Digital Identity Anchor Credential:**
   - Introduction of a new credential to link digital identities with authorized registers (e.g., Australian business number).
   - Discussion on aligning with verifiable legal entity identifiers (VLEI) and ensuring compatibility with existing standards.

5. **Governance and Versioning of Standards:**
   - Presentation of a diagram to illustrate the governance and extension of digital product passports and related credentials.
   - Agreement to maintain long-term versions and ensure stability of standards and references.
   - Discussion on the inclusion of external vocabularies (e.g., schema.org) alongside UN-specific vocabularies.

6. **Issues and Actions:**
   - Several tickets and issues were reviewed, including automated policy execution and maintaining versions of standards.
   - Harley volunteered to present a demo on trust graphs and shackle rule validation in four weeks.

**Next Steps:**
- Address and finalize responses to public comments on Recommendation 49 by Monday.
- Update and publish the digital identity anchor credential after resolving outstanding issues.
- Continue discussions on governance and versioning, incorporating feedback from the broader standards community.
- Prepare for the next meeting, focusing on traceability events and further issues.

**Action Items:**
- Zach and Steve to create an integrated comments log for Recommendation 49.
- Steve to update the project page with relevant links and descriptions.
- Harley to prepare a demo on trust graphs for the meeting in four weeks.
- Team to review and provide feedback on the governance diagram and proposed standards extension approach.

This summary captures the main points and action items from the meeting. If any participant has additional comments or corrections, please share them before the next meeting.

## 2024-06-19 Meeting Summary

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Chair)
- Speaker 2 (Patrick)
- Speaker 3 (Zach)
- Speaker 4 (Phil)
- Speaker 5 (Steve)
- Speaker 6 (Nis)
- Speaker 7 (Juliet)
- Speaker 8 (Dr. Wang)

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Implementation Tools and Reference Implementations:**
   - Discussed the distinction between implementation tools and reference implementations.
   - Emphasis on the need for a toolkit to help implementers test and ensure interoperability with UNTP.
   - Concerns about long-term funding for test suites and the potential for community contributions.

2. **Rendering Methods for Verifiable Credentials:**
   - Debate on whether to mandate a specific rendering method.
   - Agreement to use a “should” directive for rendering methods, specifying HTML as the primary method but allowing for additional methods.
   - Adjustments to the wording to reflect this approach.

3. **Conformity Credential Alignment:**
   - Discussion on aligning conformity credentials with the VCDM (Verifiable Credential Data Model).
   - Decision to manage status externally rather than within the credential to avoid reissuing credentials for status changes.
   - Agreement on using existing VCDM fields where applicable and not duplicating fields within the credential.

4. **Identity Resolver Naming:**
   - Phil suggested renaming “digital link resolver” to “identity resolver” to avoid confusion and potential trademark issues.
   - Agreement to adopt “identity resolver” as it better describes the function.

5. **Site Restructure and Business Case Promotion:**
   - Site restructuring to align with the five-pillar architecture model and updated component names.
   - Elevated the business case section to highlight the importance of commercial incentives and funding for sustainable supply chains.

6. **Versioning of Context Files:**
   - Discussion on the appropriate granularity for context files.
   - Consensus on having separate context files for each core data credential type to simplify management and maintainability.
   - Emphasis on aligning versioning of data models, schemas, and context files.

7. **Use of Jargon Tool for Model Generation:**
   - Overview of the Jargon tool used for generating schemas and context files.
   - Acknowledgment of the need for high-quality outputs and flexibility in tool usage.
   - Open to reassessing the tool’s use based on implementation feedback.

**Action Items:**
- **Patrick and Nis:** Update the conformity credential model to align with VCDM fields and manage status externally.
- **Zach:** Update the wording for rendering methods to reflect the new “should” directive.
- **Steve:** Finalize and merge the PR for identity resolver renaming and site restructuring.
- **Team:** Review and experiment with the Jargon tool to ensure it meets quality expectations for generating context files.

**Next Steps:**
- Finalize the updates to data models and context files before the next meeting.
- Prepare for discussions on the content of digital product passports and business content in upcoming calls.

## 2024-06-13 Meeting Summary

**Participants:**
- Steve (Speaker 1)
- Nis (Speaker 2)
- Zach (Speaker 6)
- Cliff (Speaker 2)
- Patrick (Speaker 3)
- Ksenia (Mentioned)
- John (Speaker 5)
- Suzanne (Speaker 3)

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Pull Requests Review:**
   - **Testing Architecture PR by Zach:**
     - Discussion on merging Zach's updated testing architecture, which simplifies the previous bullet-heavy document.
     - Consensus to merge despite it being in draft to move forward.

   - **Mill Test Report PR by Nis:**
     - Addressed issue 19 regarding steel mill test reports conforming to schema.
     - Decision to close and start fresh aligning with the layered architecture approach.

   - **Digital Livestock Passport:**
     - A practical extension example for the Australian digital livestock passport project.
     - Closed PR without merging, left a comment on the required alignment.

   - **Context and Schema Files by Nis:**
     - Added basic context and schema definitions to aid in linked data implementation.
     - Agreement on merging the PR despite the incomplete schema, with an action to improve alignment.

   - **Reference Implementations by Zach:**
     - Deferred merging Zach’s reference implementations pending more complete content.

2. **Architecture Overview Discussion:**
   - Presented a diagram outlining the components of the UNTP specifications.
   - Discussed sections including Digital Identity Anchor, Decentralized Access and Control (DAC), and semantic understanding of data.
   - Emphasis on practical guidance using existing technologies like GLEIF’s Verifiable Legal Entity Identifier and Trust Over IP’s Trust Registry Protocol.

3. **Methodology for Model and Schema:**
   - Addressed the collision of top-down (model-driven) and bottom-up (instance-driven) methodologies.
   - Decision to use Nis’s practical instances to guide model updates and schema generation for alignment.

4. **Additional Business:**
   - Agreement on renaming “trust graph” to “transparency graph” to avoid confusion.
   - Planned actions to update documentation, align naming conventions, and ensure completeness of the context and schema files.

**Action Items:**
- **Steve:** Update the jargon generator to produce schema and context files that align with Nis’s examples.
- **Nis:** Assist with reviewing and validating the updated model-generated artifacts.
- **Steve:** Merge the updated architecture overview and realign website content accordingly.
- **John and Suzanne:** Continue contributions to decentralized access control and digital identity anchor discussions.
- **Team:** Prepare for testing the digital product passport model in various industry contexts.

The next meeting is scheduled in two weeks for further technical reviews and business discussions on the practical implementation of the digital product passport.

## 2024-06-05 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Steve (Speaker 1)
- Virginia (Speaker 3)
- Jason (Speaker 5)
- Patrick (Speaker 2)
- Marcus (Speaker 4)
- Other unidentified speakers

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Meeting Organization and Participation:**
   - Steve acknowledged the need to increase participation in meetings through better marketing.
   - Reminded attendees that this is a UN meeting and contributions are considered UN IP.
   - Steve mentioned that meetings are recorded and transcriptions are published.

2. **Meeting Transcription and Summary Process:**
   - Steve shared updates on how meeting transcriptions and summaries are managed.
   - Introduced a table format for meeting summaries with video transcripts, text transcripts, GPT summaries, and one-sentence summaries for quick reference.

3. **Pull Requests and JSON Schema vs. JSON-LD Context:**
   - Discussion on handling pull requests and differences between JSON schema (structure) and JSON-LD context (meaning).
   - Steve shared a detailed explanation and a diagram to clarify these differences, using examples like a verifiable credential describing a traceability event for a bale of cotton.

4. **Challenges with JSON-LD Context and Semantic Interoperability:**
   - Steve highlighted the challenges in mapping complex, abstracted data models to meaningful terms in a consistent way.
   - Illustrated the difficulty with an example involving transport means and IMO numbers, emphasizing the problem with abstract structures in JSON-LD context files.

5. **Discussion on Governance and Granularity:**
   - Patrick and Marcus contributed to the discussion on how to manage the complexity and granularity of context files.
   - Marcus suggested using catalog entries to manage multiple schemas and context files, which could help in maintaining semantic integrity and version control.
   - The need for proper governance to ensure correct mappings and avoid wrong semantic interpretations was emphasized.

6. **Principles for Managing Context Files:**
   - Agreement on keeping context files small, semantically correct, and aligned with specific use cases.
   - Steve proposed focusing on manageable granularity for context files, suggesting one context file per credential schema to simplify governance and changes.

7. **Future Steps:**
   - Plan to open an issue for further discussion on mapping complexity and balance.
   - Aim to document guiding principles for UNTP governance and implementers.
   - Acknowledgment that more discussion and iteration are needed to refine the approach.

**Action Items:**
- Steve to draft guiding principles for context file management.
- Open an issue for further discussion on mapping complexity and balance.
- Follow-up discussions to refine the approach based on feedback and further exploration.

**Meeting Conclusion:**
- Steve thanked everyone for their participation and contributions.
- The meeting ended with an acknowledgment of the need for ongoing collaboration to address the challenges discussed.

## 2024-05-30 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Zachary
- Stefano
- Michael
- Joe
- Bill
- Peter
- Various team members

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Pull Requests:**
   - Zachary presented his closed pull request related to test architecture. He acknowledged the need to update it based on Steve's feedback and plans to do so by next week.
   - Discussion on merging half-baked pull requests to ensure progress and avoid stagnation.

2. **Issues:**
   - The team has 50 open issues, with a tendency to create more than they resolve.
   - **Selective Disclosure Use Cases and Requirements:** This issue is on hold, with a potential demo for the UN forum being considered.
   - **PDF Generator Issue:** Assigned to three people, none of whom were present. It was suggested to put a note for easy conversion of GitHub sites to PDF documents and possibly mark the issue as pending close.
   - **Right to Repair Regulations:** Stefano highlighted the importance of aligning with EU regulations on this matter to enhance document alignment. He volunteered to draft relevant verbiage.
   - **Depth of Product Information:** The team discussed the necessity of tracking both upstream and downstream information, debating the practical limits and methods for maintaining depth without overcomplicating the process.
   - **Discovery Mechanism:** Discussion on the challenge of linking product information if the physical identifier is lost. No immediate solution was found, and the issue might be closed without action or tagged for future consideration.

3. **Technical Discussions:**
   - The challenge of maintaining a dynamic and evolving digital product passport was discussed, with considerations on how to append information without altering the original document.
   - There was a consensus on the importance of linked product passports, with each tier in the supply chain responsible for creating and maintaining their own passports and linking them appropriately.
   - Verification and validation processes for credentials were discussed, with the need to detail steps for verifying issuers, data, schema, and status.
   - Discussion on certificates of conformity and the need for a practical way to refer to specific sections within a comprehensive conformity document.

4. **Future Actions:**
   - Explore solutions for appending information to digital product passports without compromising the original data.
   - Open new tickets to address specific downstream right-to-repair solutions.
   - Investigate the potential need for a central registry or blockchain solution to ensure the longevity and accessibility of digital product passports.
   - Ensure alignment with existing standards and leverage the work done by related bodies.

**Conclusion:**
The meeting covered a range of issues from pull requests to regulatory alignment and the technical challenges of digital product passports. The team agreed on the need for continued exploration and development in these areas, with specific action items identified for follow-up. The meeting ended with the decision to be more aggressive in closing unresolved issues to maintain a manageable list.

## 2024-05-23 Meeting Summary

**Participants:** Virginia, Steve, Patrick, Zach, Gerhard, Marcus, John, Virginia, Joe, Phil, Harley, Juliet, and others.

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Attendance and Meeting Logistics:**
   - Various participants joined from different locations, including Steve on a yacht in Corfu.
   - Technical difficulties were experienced by some participants with the meeting link.

2. **Meeting Overview:**
   - The meeting was recorded and contributions are governed by a UN project.
   - The agenda focused on pull requests, updates to tickets, and related discussions.

3. **Pull Requests and Sample File Updates:**
   - A pull request discussed was about updating a sample file for the digital product passport.
   - The sample file was initially populated with real data from a participant's wife's company, which was then genericized.
   - Agreement to merge the pull request after making it align better with the VC data model.

4. **Discussion on Naming and Structuring Digital Product Passports:**
   - Debate on the appropriate terminology for types of credentials and subjects within the digital product passport.
   - Suggestions included keeping terms like "product passport" consistent and aligned with the data model.
   - The group discussed the implications of using terms like "digital" in various contexts.

5. **Alignment with the VC Data Model:**
   - Agreement that the digital product passport should not compete with but rather use the VC data model.
   - Proposed changes include aligning the example data and the data model, and updating the website accordingly.

6. **Trust Graph vs. Transparency Graph:**
   - Extensive discussion on the terminology to describe the assessment of linked data within digital product passports.
   - Alternatives considered included "trust graph," "provenance graph," "evidence graph," and "transparency graph."
   - Consensus leaned towards using "transparency graph" to avoid confusion and to better align with the project's goals.

7. **Reference to W3C Provenance Model:**
   - Marcus suggested using the W3C Provo ontology as a framework for describing the evidence or transparency graph.
   - This approach would help in structuring and querying the data to provide a clear lineage and validation of the information.

8. **Action Items:**
   - Steve to make the discussed changes to the pull request and update the data model and website.
   - Participants to review the W3C Provenance Model and consider its integration into the project specifications.
   - Further refinement and alignment of terminology and models in future discussions.

**Next Steps:**
- Follow-up on the discussed changes and updates.
- Continued refinement of terminology and alignment with established data models.
- Ongoing review and merging of pull requests as per the consensus reached.

**Closing:**
- The meeting concluded with an acknowledgment of the productive discussion and the clarity gained on several topics. Participants were thanked for their contributions.

For more detailed information, the full meeting recording and notes are available for review.

## 2024-05-16 Meeting Summary

**Date:** May 16, 2024

**Participants:** Various speakers including Steve, Phil Archer, Nis, Suzanne, and others.

#### Key Points Discussed:

1. **Introduction and IP Reminder:**
   - Contributions to the project are under the UNIP framework.
   - Agenda includes discussing outstanding pull requests, ongoing tickets, and the relationship between schema, context files, and vocabularies.

2. **Pull Requests Review:**
   - **Minor Typo Fix:** A simple typo correction was merged without objections.
   - **Example Update:** An update to the example in the passport and conformity credential sections was discussed. Concerns about using a real company's product (buyacre.com) were raised, suggesting a switch to imaginary examples to avoid IP issues.

3. **Test Architecture Proposal:**
   - Introduction of a three-tier conformance testing model: technical interoperability, schema testing, and business workflow testing.
   - Emphasis on ensuring must/should requirements are testable.
   - Discussion on using existing W3C test suites for core elements and defining additional tests for extensions.

4. **Linked Data and JSON-LD Context Files:**
   - Importance of linked data for ensuring consistent meaning across multiple instances.
   - Strategy to keep JSON-LD context files light and map only necessary elements to avoid complexity and incorrect mappings.
   - Agreement to develop the data model first and then map to established vocabularies.

5. **Issues and Tickets:**
   - Several issues tagged as pending closure after aligning models with VCDM.
   - Ongoing discussions on specific issues, with updates and resolutions expected in future meetings.

6. **External Collaborations and Standards:**
   - Steve presented at the Surpass kickoff, discussing alignment with the European Commission's efforts on product passports.
   - Suzanne highlighted the need to align with JTC 24 standards, focusing on product passport issuance and upstream supply chain data integration.
   - Proposal to establish a formal liaison with JTC 24 through the UN.

#### Actions and Next Steps:

1. **Steve:**
   - Work with Nis to update example models with non-proprietary products.
   - Align data models with VCDM and prepare for pilot implementations.
   - Follow up on establishing a formal liaison with JTC 24 through the UN.

2. **Phil Archer:**
   - Review any references to secure QR codes and update the test suite as needed.
   - Monitor and update the alignment with JTC 24 standards.

3. **Suzanne:**
   - Provide guidance on establishing a liaison with JTC 24.
   - Monitor JTC 24 activities and report back on potential divergences or necessary alignments.

4. **All Participants:**
   - Review the updated data models and provide feedback in the next meeting.
   - Engage in discussions on trust graphs and interoperability in upcoming calls.

#### Closing Remarks:
- Meeting ended 15 minutes early, with participants appreciating the extra time. The next meeting will focus on updates to the data models and further discussions on trust graphs.

## 2024-05-09 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Speaker 1 (Steve)
- Speaker 2 (Patrick)
- Speaker 3 (Virginia)
- Speaker 4 (John)
- Speaker 5 (Marcus)
- Speaker 6 (Unidentified)
- Speaker 7 (Unidentified)

**Agenda:**
1. Review of Outstanding PRs
2. Discussion on Key Tickets
3. Assignment Updates

**Key Points:**

1. **General Updates:**
   - Steve is currently anchored in Hvar, Croatia.
   - Meeting participants are from various time zones, with some joining late at night.

2. **Recording and Contributions:**
   - Meeting is recorded and contributions are for UNIP.
   - Participants are reminded that if they do not wish to contribute to UNIP, they should refrain from sharing ideas.

3. **Review of PRs:**
   - Only one pull request was discussed, which focused on enriching the content for conformity credentials.
   - The PR aims to align with existing business requirement specifications and the logical model of digital product conformity certificates.
   - Discussion about aligning fields with the VC (Verifiable Credentials) data model, particularly the "issuer" field.

4. **Feedback on PRs:**
   - Nis provided feedback on the PR, suggesting alignment with the VC data model.
   - Discussion on avoiding duplication of information and using complex objects in the VC issuer field.
   - Decision to merge the current PR and address alignment in subsequent revisions.

5. **Trust Graphs:**
   - Discussion led by John on the concept of trust graphs and the complexity of defining absolute measures of trustworthiness.
   - Agreement that trust decisions should be subjective and context-dependent, rather than protocol-defined scores.

6. **Rendering Methods:**
   - Patrick discussed the use of OCA (Overlays Capture Architecture) for rendering credentials, supporting multiple languages and additional metadata.
   - Emphasis on separating rendering logic from the data integrity of credentials.

7. **Multilingual Support:**
   - Debate on whether multilingual support should be embedded within the credential or handled through external overlays.
   - Consensus on using governed presentation layers for multilingual support to keep credentials simple and maintainable.

8. **Action Items:**
   - Align digital product passport models with the VC data model.
   - Remove the scoring elements from the digital product passport to avoid complications and ensure clarity.
   - Write a ticket to formally propose the removal of scoring from the digital product passport (John).

9. **Other Discussions:**
   - Mention of the Australian Agriculture Traceability Protocol as a model for implementing similar initiatives.
   - Steve highlighted a new publication from the Australian Government on agricultural traceability, noting the influence of UNTP.

10. **Closing Remarks:**
    - Steve thanked participants and emphasized the importance of aligning with the VC data model.
    - Next steps include continuing work on assigned tickets and discussing progress in the next meeting.

**Next Meeting:**
- Participants will continue with their assigned tasks and discuss further progress in the following week.

This summary captures the main points and action items from the meeting, ensuring clarity on the next steps and ongoing discussions.

## 2024-04-25 Meeting Summary

**Meeting Start and Introductions:**
- The meeting was initiated by Speaker 1, who took over the role of Master of Ceremony due to Steve being on a flight.
- Attendance included a significant Australian contingent despite it being a public holiday in Australia.
- Steve is traveling to China to coordinate supply chain pilot projects in the battery and critical mineral manufacturing process.

**Agenda and Objectives:**
- Review and process of open pull requests.
- Assignment and movement of stale issues.
- Emphasis on facilitating broader collaboration within the group.
- Encouragement for discussions to be taken offline or into Slack channels unless mission-critical.

**Key Points Discussed:**
1. **Pull Requests:**
   - Three pull requests were reviewed.
   - Major update to the traceability event schema by Steve was discussed, aligning more closely with the GS1 EPCIS standard.
   - Gerhard suggested creating an issue to compare the current model with the existing data models used in other sectors like animal track and trace and textiles.
   - Another pull request involved adding a governance section to describe the collaboration process.
   - A minor but potentially controversial pull request to remove an "out of place header" was discussed. The group decided to create a ticket to further explore the verifiability of identifiers before merging the pull request.

2. **Issues:**
   - Several issues were discussed, including the addition of page listing referenced standards, digital product passport sample files, and UNTP extensions methodology.
   - Gerhard highlighted the importance of maintaining interoperability by having a concise data model applicable across different industries.
   - Marcus and Virginia emphasized the need for clear guidance on how extensions fit within the core data structures and the governance process for managing these extensions.

**Action Items:**
- Creation of issues for comparing data models and verifying identifiers.
- Assignment of tasks to specific individuals, including Zach taking on the task of providing a digital product passport sample file.
- Further discussion on trust graph validation and the relationship between extensions and the core UNTP specifications.

**Closing Remarks:**
- The meeting concluded with thanks to Zach for leading the session in Steve's absence.
- A reminder for continuous collaboration and the importance of adhering to the process for pull requests and issue discussions.

This summary captures the main points and action items from the meeting, providing a concise overview for those who were unable to attend.

## 2024-04-18 Meeting Summary

#### Participants:
- Speaker 1
- Nis (Master of Ceremonies)
- Phil
- Susanne
- Steve
- Zach
- Michael
- Gerhard

#### Key Points Discussed:

1. **Reminder on Contributions:**
   - Contributions made to the GitHub repository are contributions to United Nations Intellectual Property (UN IP).
   - External specifications like GS1 and W3C can be referred to, but unique content belongs to UN IP.

2. **Streamlining Specification Sections:**
   - Discussion on the need to streamline the specification sections due to too many headings.
   - Proposal to handle this later in the normal order of pull requests and issues.

3. **Pull Requests:**
   - **Pull Request 57 by Phil:**
     - Focused on identifying discoverability and the pervasiveness of scanners and software.
     - Positive feedback and agreement to build incrementally on the contributions.
   - **Pull Request 59 by Zach:**
     - Simplified goals based on previous discussions, addressing issue 53.
     - Merged with no objections.
   - **Pull Request by Steve:**
     - Added verifiable credentials section, discussing business requirements and existing technical specifications.
     - Emphasis on conservative issuance and flexible verification.
     - Merged with no objections.

4. **Issues Discussion:**
   - **Issue 9 (Verification and Trust Graphs):**
     - Proposal to use business-friendly examples and diagrams to explain trust graphs.
     - Three common patterns identified:
       1. Same identity across different credentials.
       2. Conformity credential linked to claim.
       3. Certifier accredited by a trusted third party.
     - Commitment to create a PR with these examples for further discussion.

5. **General Agreement:**
   - Need for more use cases to test the scenarios and specification.
   - Encouragement for more participants to lean in and help move forward with the tasks.
   - Importance of balancing detailed discussions with progress on issues.

#### Actions and Assignments:
- **Steve and Suzanne:** Collaborate on creating examples and diagrams for the trust graph patterns.
- **Phil:** To work on aligning terminologies (must, should, may) with IETF standards.
- **All participants:** Add comments on issues directly in GitHub for better tracking and follow-up.

#### Next Steps:
- Assign issues before discussions in the next meeting.
- Ensure more focused discussions to cover more issues efficiently.

#### Closing Remarks:
- Commitment to improving the pace of progress while bringing everyone along on the journey.
- Meeting adjourned with a plan to implement better structure in future meetings.

This summary captures the essence of the meeting, the key decisions made, and the next steps agreed upon. If you need any specific details from the transcript, please let me know!

## 2024-04-11 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Steve
- Patrick
- Susanna
- Virginia
- Susan
- Becky
- Nancy
- Zach
- Carolyn
- Joe
- Stephen
- Other Participants

**Main Discussion Points:**

1. **Introduction and Setup:**
   - Initial greetings and setting up systems.
   - Discussion on the global timing of the meeting to accommodate different time zones, primarily focusing on American and Canadian colleagues.

2. **Podcast Mention:**
   - Mention of a podcast with Darrell O'Donnell and the suggestion to share the link in the Slack channel.

3. **Meeting Formalities:**
   - Reminder that contributions are for U.N. IP and that the meeting is recorded.
   - Standard procedure involves reviewing open pull requests and discussing issues.

4. **Digital Product Passport (DPP) Development:**
   - Emphasis on the need to start looking at industry use cases.
   - Discussion on the GBA digital product battery passport and ISO standard for digital product circularity.
   - Agreement to merge changes related to the product passport data model.

5. **Use Cases and Industry Pilots:**
   - Discussion on industry-specific pilots for testing the feasibility and value of the DPP.
   - Mention of upcoming pilots in agriculture and critical raw materials.
   - Carolyn shared a slide explaining the value chain and the application of the UNTP framework.

6. **Trust and Credential Verification:**
   - Discussion on trust registries and methods for verifying the trustworthiness of credential issuers.
   - Different approaches were considered, including the use of DID (Decentralized Identifiers) and linked credentials.
   - Example of the Australian Business Register and how it could issue credentials to businesses.

7. **Verifiable Credentials and Exchange Models:**
   - Debate on the best practices for exchanging verifiable credentials, whether wallet-to-wallet or through a publish and discover model.
   - Reference to a project that involved publicly discoverable credentials and lessons that could be relevant for UNTP.

8. **Technical Infrastructure and DID Methods:**
   - Concerns about the infrastructure for DID web and potential lock-in with service providers.
   - Suggestion to develop recommendations for DID methods suitable for different use cases, such as small businesses and product identifiers.

9. **Upcoming Tasks and Assignments:**
   - Agreement to work on a prototype for linked credentials and identity verification.
   - Decision to use Slack more actively for offline discussions to expedite progress.

**Action Items:**
- Patrick to write a summary of lessons from the discussed project and how they might impact UNTP.
- Stephen Curran to work on a prototype for verifying linked credentials.
- Create a ticket for recommending DID methods for different use cases.
- More active use of Slack for ongoing discussions and resolving tickets.

**Next Meeting:**
- The next meeting will be held at a time more convenient for European participants.

**Additional Notes:**
- Suzanne from the World Economic Forum and the Global Battery Alliance participated for the first time.
- Stephen Curran introduced a new DID method called Trusted Web, which could be relevant for the project's needs.

This summary captures the key points and discussions from the meeting on April 10, 2024.

## 2024-04-04 Meeting Summary

**Attendees:**
- Steve (Speaker 1)
- Nisht (Speaker 2)
- SAC Representative (Speaker 8)
- Michael Shea (Speaker 9)
- Virginia (Speaker 5)
- Brett (Speaker 7)
- Gerhard (Speaker 3)
- Joe (Speaker 4)
- Ashley (Speaker 6)

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Recording and IP Contribution:**
   - **Steve** reminded everyone that contributions are voluntary, and IP is contributed to the UN.
   - A recording will be posted for those who couldn't attend.

2. **Digital Product Passport (DPP):**
   - **Steve** requested additional discussion time on DPP updates.
   - Issues with pull requests (PR) were discussed, particularly around supply chain depth clarification.
   - Agreement to merge a PR and address depth in a subsequent PR.

3. **Pull Requests and Issues:**
   - A PR from **SAC Representative** was discussed. It was agreed to merge it with follow-up clarifications.
   - Discussion on identifiers for entities and products, emphasizing the need for multiple identifiers (e.g., GLN, ABN, DID) and the ability to verify them.
   - Importance of having robust claims for product categories and items, considering changes over time.

4. **Granularity in Product Claims:**
   - **Virginia** and **Gerhard** led a detailed discussion on handling product claims at different levels (e.g., product class vs. individual items).
   - Emphasized the necessity of batch numbers and serialized identifiers for traceability and integrity.

5. **Verifiable Credentials and Technical Specifications:**
   - Debate on the approach for verifiable credentials and the need for implementation guidelines.
   - Discussion on interoperability, technical recommendations, and the balance between specificity and flexibility.
   - Agreement to draft business requirements to guide technical recommendations.

6. **Rendering Templates for Verifiable Credentials:**
   - **Ashley** presented on using rendering templates within credentials.
   - Discussion on embedding templates vs. linking to external sources, considering privacy, performance, and integrity.

7. **Next Steps and Actions:**
   - **Steve** to draft business requirements for verifiable credentials.
   - **Nis** and others to provide feedback and draft a pull request based on these requirements.
   - Further discussion on specific technical choices and their rationale.

**Action Items:**
- **Steve** to draft and post business requirements for verifiable credentials.
- **All relevant parties** to prepare and review pull requests related to DPP updates and verifiable credentials.
- Continue discussions on granularity of product claims and implementation guidelines.

**Conclusion:**
The meeting focused on refining the process for handling digital product passports and verifiable credentials, ensuring robust and interoperable solutions. The importance of clear business requirements to guide technical decisions was emphasized, and specific actions were assigned to move forward with these discussions.

## 2024-03-28 Meeting Summary

#### Attendees:
- **Stephen (Speaker 1)**
- **Kevin (Speaker 13)**
- **Nancy Norris (Speaker 5)**
- **Stephen Curran (Speaker 14)**
- **Jason (Speaker 7)**
- **Phil (Speaker 2)**
- **Virginia (Speaker 3)**
- **Christophe (Speaker 12)**
- **Michael (Speaker 10)**
- **Zach (Speaker 12)**
- **John (Speaker 9)**
- **Peter (Speaker 8)**

#### Key Points Discussed:

1. **Meeting Timing Adjustments:**
   - Adjusted to accommodate participants from different time zones, especially from Canada and the U.S.
   - Noted appreciation for the flexibility, despite it being late for some European participants.

2. **Welcome and Introductions:**
   - Introduction of new participants from North America.
   - Brief introductions by Nancy Norris and Stephen Curran highlighting their roles and work on verifiable credentials.

3. **Recording and Standards Development:**
   - Meeting is being recorded.
   - Emphasis on the focus on standards development rather than commercial products.
   - Contributions to the meeting are considered as contributions to the United Nations Intellectual Property Library.

4. **Digital Product Passport (DPP):**
   - Discussion on the importance of focusing on the DPP due to upcoming pilots in Australia and the EU.
   - Emphasis on business attention needed for the DPP structure.

5. **Claims and Evidence:**
   - Discussion on how to handle claims at the SKU, batch, and facility levels.
   - Recognition of the need to differentiate between product-level and batch-level claims.
   - Debate on the inclusion of benchmark values and references in the claims.
     - Some participants argued for the inclusion to provide context and comparability.
     - Others suggested it could be out of scope and should be handled by third-party verifiers.

6. **Granularity of Claims and Evidence:**
   - Addressed the challenge of reconciling claims at the shipment level with evidence at the facility level.
   - Discussed the potential for greenwashing if facility-level evidence is used to support product-level claims without proper verification.

7. **Product vs. Batch Passports:**
   - Consideration of whether to maintain separate passports for products and batches.
   - Discussed the possibility of inheriting claims from product to batch levels.
   - Agreed on the need for optional structures to support different use cases.

8. **Vocabulary and Ontology:**
   - Suggested a need for rigorous definition and management of the taxonomy and ontology of claims.
   - Potential overlap between the data model and the vocabulary of sustainability claims.

9. **Next Steps:**
   - Stephen to update the ticket with the consensus from the discussion.
   - Further review and testing of the data model with real use cases to ensure its implementability.

#### Action Items:
- Stephen to update the data model and ticket based on the discussion.
- Participants to review the updated model and provide feedback.
- Plan to test the model with sample certificates and real-world scenarios.

#### Closing:
- Meeting concluded with a reminder to stick to time limits for the benefit of all participants. 

Please let me know if there are any specific details or additional information you would like to include in the summary.

## 2024-03-15 Meeting Summary

**Participants:**
- Steve
- Phil
- Nis
- Other unnamed speakers

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Policy Document Submission:**
   - The policy document was successfully submitted to the Secretariat and forwarded to the Bureau.
   - Approval from Bureau members is in progress, with public release anticipated soon.

2. **Meeting Frequency:**
   - Discussion on whether to hold meetings weekly or fortnightly.
   - Consensus leaned towards weekly half-hour meetings to ensure consistent progress and accountability.

3. **Tech Specifications and PRs:**
   - Focus to shift to tech specifications following the policy document submission.
   - Nis discussed several pull requests (PRs) for practice and refinement.
   - Agreed on a structured approach to reviewing and merging PRs.

4. **GS1 Standards and UNTP:**
   - Debate on the inclusion of GS1 standards and the relationship with UNTP.
   - Decision to potentially host information on GS1’s own page and link it from the UNTP site.

5. **Editing and Contributing via GitHub:**
   - Demonstration on how to edit pages, create issues, and make pull requests on GitHub.
   - Emphasis on using the "Edit this page" feature for ease of contribution.

6. **Action Items:**
   - Participants to self-assign tickets on GitHub and contribute to issues and pull requests.
   - Continuous monitoring and support via Slack for any technical issues.

7. **Miscellaneous:**
   - Acknowledgment of contributions to the policy document.
   - Future meetings to follow a structured process focusing on PRs and issues.

**Next Steps:**
- Weekly meetings to continue with a focus on technical specifications.
- Participants to actively engage in GitHub for issue tracking and pull requests.
- Continued collaboration and support to ensure progress on project goals.

## 2024-02-29 Meeting Summary

**Date:** February 29, 2024

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Steve)
- Speaker 2 (Virginia)
- Speaker 3 (Christophe)
- Speaker 4 (Nes)
- Speaker 5 (Brett)
- Speaker 6 (Jerry)
- Speaker 7 (Rakesh)
- Speaker 8 (Peter)
- Speaker 9 (Unnamed participants)

---

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Introduction and Updates:**
   - Steve (Speaker 1) is still in Europe and provided an update on his encounters in Europe, including attending the GS1 Global Forum and OECD Textile and Leather Due Diligence Forum. He emphasized the alignment of GS1’s initiatives with the group’s goals and the opportunities for collaboration.

2. **European Meetings:**
   - GS1 Global Forum: Discussed their customers' challenges and the potential for cooperation in the use of resolvable identifiers and digital product passports.
   - OECD Forum: Major brands like Adidas are struggling with due diligence requirements and need a standard to push through their supply chain.
   - Surpass Program: EU’s initiative for pilot projects in various sectors, which is seen as complementary to UNDP.
   - DG Grow: European Commission's interest in complementary end-to-end pilots.

3. **Feedback on Europe Meetings:**
   - The feedback received from meetings in Europe was generally positive, indicating a good alignment with the group's objectives and a strong appetite for collaboration on digital product passports and related initiatives.

4. **Discussion on UNDP and EU DPP:**
   - Virginia highlighted the need to base the cross-border environmental passport on UNDP and mentioned that UNEP is interested in cooperating but prefers to base their work on UNDP.

5. **Recommendations Structure:**
   - The group discussed the structure of the recommendations in their document, deciding on having recommendations after the challenges section, aligning with standard UN document structures.
   - Emphasized the importance of making digital product passports resolvable and verifiable and the role of identifier schemes.

6. **Challenges Section:**
   - Agreement to shorten the challenges section to make the document more readable and concise, aiming for about two pages.

7. **Next Steps:**
   - Steve will rework Section 1 based on the feedback, shorten the challenges, and send out the updated version by Monday for final review before submission to the Secretariat by the end of the week.

**Action Items:**
- Steve to revise Section 1 and shorten the challenges section.
- Send the revised document to the team by Monday.
- Team to review and provide feedback before the next meeting on Thursday.
- Finalize the document for submission by Friday.

**Meeting Adjourned:**
- Meeting concluded with a plan to reconvene on Thursday for final review.

---

This summary captures the key points and actions from the meeting, ensuring that all participants are aligned on the next steps and responsibilities.

## 2024-02-15 Meeting Summary

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Chair)
- Speaker 2 (Virginia)
- Speaker 3 (Gerhard)
- Speaker 4 (Rakesh)
- Speaker 5 (Stefano)
- Speaker 6
- Speaker 7 (Joe)
- Speaker 8
- Speaker 9
- Speaker 10

**Agenda:**
1. Review and focus on the policy document draft.
2. Discuss feedback and make necessary adjustments.
3. Prepare for final iteration of sections before the public review.

**Key Points Discussed:**

1. **Policy Document Review:**
   - The meeting primarily focused on the policy document draft instead of GitHub issues.
   - The urgency to finalize REC 49 for the UN plenary in July was emphasized. The document needs to complete a two-month public review starting early March.

2. **Feedback and Structural Changes:**
   - Feedback from UN Secretariat suggested separating recommendations to member states (Section 1) from those to industry actors (Section 2).
   - Virginia's recent edits include:
     - An introduction explaining the purpose of Recommendation 49.
     - A section detailing the UNTP and its challenges in a table format.
     - Clarification on roles and opportunities in Section 2.

3. **Content Adjustments:**
   - Speaker 2 pointed out the need for an explanatory section on UNTP.
   - Speaker 1 shared insights from discussions with WTO member state delegates, highlighting the importance of simplifying the document’s language and message.
   - Stakeholder mapping and visual aids were suggested to clarify the focus on different audiences.

4. **Technical and Terminological Clarifications:**
   - Debate on the term "protocol" concluded with keeping the term but clarifying its meaning in the context of the document.
   - Replace "ESG" with "sustainability" to avoid political connotations and ensure clarity.

5. **Strategic Alignment:**
   - Rakesh emphasized aligning the document with existing multilateral frameworks (G20, OECD) and strategic objectives of countries.
   - Highlighting benefits such as harmonization and reduction of industry burden to appeal to policymakers.

6. **Final Edits and Testing:**
   - The need for another draft incorporating feedback was agreed upon.
   - Testing the revised document on external policymakers for readability and impact before the final iteration.

**Action Items:**
- **Virginia** to integrate feedback and refine the document.
- **Rakesh** to draft paragraphs on aligning with global initiatives and specifying relevant government departments.
- **Joe and Gerhard** to provide additional input on technical simplifications and stakeholder visual aids.
- **Speaker 1** to circulate an updated draft by Monday for final review and feedback.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Appreciation for the hard work and contributions from all team members.
- Next steps include refining the document based on today’s discussions and preparing for final testing with policymakers.

**Next Meeting:**
- Date to be determined, expected early next week to review the updated document.

## 2024-02-01 Meeting Summary

**Date:** January 25, 2024

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Steve)
- Virginia
- Peter
- John
- Zach
- Olivia
- Ash
- Kevin
- Nancy
- Brett
- Others

**Agenda:**
1. Welcome and Introduction
2. Review of Document and GitHub Issues
3. Discussion on Sustainability Pledge and Challenges
4. Collaboration and Coordination in Value Chains
5. Summary of Business Drivers and Technical Challenges
6. Overview of the UNTP Protocol and Design Principles
7. Stakeholder-Specific Challenges and Recommendations
8. Next Steps and Action Items

**Key Points:**

1. **Welcome and Introduction:**
   - Steve acknowledged participants and outlined the meeting's agenda.
   - Mention of ongoing work on the document and the need to populate it further.

2. **Review of Document and GitHub Issues:**
   - A walkthrough of the newly created website for technical information.
   - Encouragement to read specific sections of the website for better alignment with the policy document.
   - Discussion on the inclusion of contributing experts in the document.

3. **Discussion on Sustainability Pledge and Challenges:**
   - Debate on the name for the sustainability pledge to avoid confusion with the existing textiles and garments pledge.
   - Importance of making a pledge that is meaningful and not industry-specific.

4. **Collaboration and Coordination in Value Chains:**
   - Emphasis on the need for tier-one collaboration without imposing technical solutions.
   - Highlighting the importance of individual actor implementation for global traceability.

5. **Summary of Business Drivers and Technical Challenges:**
   - Simplification of business drivers to focus on fear of non-compliance and opportunities for market access and price uplift.
   - Technical challenges to be detailed in a section correlating with business challenges and confidentiality concerns.

6. **Overview of the UNTP Protocol and Design Principles:**
   - Discussion on the necessity of a new protocol and why existing solutions may not suffice.
   - Suggestion to keep technical diagrams and detailed protocol descriptions on the website, not in the policy document.

7. **Stakeholder-Specific Challenges and Recommendations:**
   - Identification of challenges specific to government, industry, and consumers.
   - Importance of highlighting regulatory challenges and benefits for governments to ensure relevance and adoption.

8. **Next Steps and Action Items:**
   - Steve and Virginia to act as master editors to streamline the document.
   - Focus on creating a draft ready for review and public consultation.
   - Continued contributions to the technical website for long-term improvements.

**Action Items:**
- Steve and Virginia to edit and refine the document based on the discussion.
- Participants to review and comment on the GitHub issues and website content.
- Schedule next meeting for further review and finalization of the draft document.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Agreement on a two-week period for Steve and Virginia to finalize the draft.
- Next meeting to review the draft and gather final feedback before public consultation.

## 2024-01-25 Meeting Summary

**Date:** January 25, 2024

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Steve)
- Virginia
- Peter
- John
- Zach
- Olivia
- Ash
- Kevin
- Nancy
- Brett
- Others

**Agenda:**
1. Welcome and Introduction
2. Review of Document and GitHub Issues
3. Discussion on Sustainability Pledge and Challenges
4. Collaboration and Coordination in Value Chains
5. Summary of Business Drivers and Technical Challenges
6. Overview of the UNTP Protocol and Design Principles
7. Stakeholder-Specific Challenges and Recommendations
8. Next Steps and Action Items

**Key Points:**

1. **Welcome and Introduction:**
   - Steve acknowledged participants and outlined the meeting's agenda.
   - Mention of ongoing work on the document and the need to populate it further.

2. **Review of Document and GitHub Issues:**
   - A walkthrough of the newly created website for technical information.
   - Encouragement to read specific sections of the website for better alignment with the policy document.
   - Discussion on the inclusion of contributing experts in the document.

3. **Discussion on Sustainability Pledge and Challenges:**
   - Debate on the name for the sustainability pledge to avoid confusion with the existing textiles and garments pledge.
   - Importance of making a pledge that is meaningful and not industry-specific.

4. **Collaboration and Coordination in Value Chains:**
   - Emphasis on the need for tier-one collaboration without imposing technical solutions.
   - Highlighting the importance of individual actor implementation for global traceability.

5. **Summary of Business Drivers and Technical Challenges:**
   - Simplification of business drivers to focus on fear of non-compliance and opportunities for market access and price uplift.
   - Technical challenges to be detailed in a section correlating with business challenges and confidentiality concerns.

6. **Overview of the UNTP Protocol and Design Principles:**
   - Discussion on the necessity of a new protocol and why existing solutions may not suffice.
   - Suggestion to keep technical diagrams and detailed protocol descriptions on the website, not in the policy document.

7. **Stakeholder-Specific Challenges and Recommendations:**
   - Identification of challenges specific to government, industry, and consumers.
   - Importance of highlighting regulatory challenges and benefits for governments to ensure relevance and adoption.

8. **Next Steps and Action Items:**
   - Steve and Virginia to act as master editors to streamline the document.
   - Focus on creating a draft ready for review and public consultation.
   - Continued contributions to the technical website for long-term improvements.

**Action Items:**
- Steve and Virginia to edit and refine the document based on the discussion.
- Participants to review and comment on the GitHub issues and website content.
- Schedule next meeting for further review and finalization of the draft document.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Agreement on a two-week period for Steve and Virginia to finalize the draft.
- Next meeting to review the draft and gather final feedback before public consultation.


## 2024-01-18 Meeting Summary

**Date:** January 18, 2024

**Participants:**
- Speaker 1 (Steve)
- Virginia
- Nis
- Nancy
- Benjamin
- Dr. Wang
- Gregory
- Others

**Agenda:**
1. Welcome and Introduction
2. Review of GitHub Issues and Editorial Process
3. Verifier Experience and Trust Graph
4. Schema Context and Verifiable Documents
5. Vocabulary and Standards Mapping
6. Versioning and Implementation Profiles
7. Extension Methodology for UNTP
8. Next Steps and Action Items

**Key Points:**

1. **Welcome and Introduction:**
   - Participants greeted each other and the meeting was recorded.
   - Steve reminded everyone about the fortnightly meeting schedule alternating between technical and policy-focused sessions.

2. **Review of GitHub Issues and Editorial Process:**
   - The editorial process involves raising GitHub issues, discussing them, reaching conclusions, and submitting pull requests for review.
   - Nis has volunteered as an editor with maintained rights on the repository.

3. **Verifier Experience and Trust Graph:**
   - Nis demonstrated a verifier experience showcasing the traversal and validation of a trust graph.
   - Discussion on how to ensure the contextual validity of linked credentials and automating due diligence for various sectors.

4. **Schema Context and Verifiable Documents:**
   - Discussion on the need to align schema context for digital product passports and verifiable credentials.
   - Emphasis on pointing to existing interoperability profiles rather than reinventing them.

5. **Vocabulary and Standards Mapping:**
   - Steve proposed creating a sustainability vocabulary to categorize ESG claims in digital product passports.
   - Dr. Wang and Gregory highlighted existing work and offered contributions to the vocabulary design.

6. **Versioning and Implementation Profiles:**
   - Discussion on how to handle versioning of specifications and implementation profiles.
   - Proposal to group specifications into core and trust-related categories with implementation profiles reflecting different levels of conformity.

7. **Extension Methodology for UNTP:**
   - The principle of defining a simple common core for UNTP and allowing industry-specific or geographic extensions.
   - Need for a rule set to ensure non-breaking extensions.

8. **Next Steps and Action Items:**
   - Participants to use GitHub tickets for further discussions and provide feedback.
   - Steve to initiate discussions on specific issues and encourage the development of consensus on key points.

**Action Items:**
- Participants to review and comment on GitHub issues.
- Steve to publish a draft sustainability vocabulary.
- Nis to work on automated policy execution and verifier experiences.
- Follow-up discussions on extension methodologies and implementation profiles.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Agreement to use GitHub issues as discussion forums to reach consensus and develop content.
- Next meeting to focus on merging pull requests and further refining the specifications.


## 2024-01-11 Meeting Summary

**Date:** January 11, 2024

**Participants:**
- Steve
- Christian
- Peter
- Zach
- Kay
- Benjamin
- Nis
- Maria Teresa
- Kevin
- Brett
- Anil John
- Others

**Agenda:**
1. Welcome and Introduction
2. Review of Registration and Participation
3. Overview of GitHub Repository and Structure
4. Discussion on Key Sections and Specifications
5. Splitting into Technical and Policy Teams
6. Next Steps and Action Items

**Key Points:**

1. **Welcome and Introduction:**
   - Participants greeted each other and wished a Happy New Year.
   - The meeting was recorded for future reference.

2. **Review of Registration and Participation:**
   - Steve reviewed the list of participants who had registered and noted the status of their registration.
   - Participants were encouraged to complete their registration if not already done.

3. **Overview of GitHub Repository and Structure:**
   - Steve shared the structure of the GitHub repository for the technical specifications of Recommendation 49.
   - The repository includes sections on architecture, digital product passports, conformity credentials, traceability events, identifiers, vocabularies, verifiable credentials, data carriers, trust anchors, trust graphs, confidentiality, anti-counterfeiting, mass balance, ESG rules, GS1 usage, business cases, tools and support, extensions register, and implementation register.

4. **Discussion on Key Sections and Specifications:**
   - Emphasis on the need to align digital product passports with existing standards, including those from the EU.
   - Discussion on the importance of identifiers and the gap between current identifier systems and the needs of a digital trust architecture.
   - The role of vocabularies in ensuring consistent categorization and reporting of ESG criteria.
   - The significance of verifiable credentials and leveraging existing profiles from other initiatives.
   - The need for clear governance and best practices for confidentiality and anti-counterfeiting.

5. **Splitting into Technical and Policy Teams:**
   - Proposal to split the group into two teams: one focused on the technical specifications in the GitHub repository and the other on the policy recommendation document.
   - Meetings will be held weekly, alternating between technical and policy discussions.

6. **Next Steps and Action Items:**
   - Participants to review the GitHub repository and provide feedback via tickets.
   - Steve to send out invitations for separate technical and policy meetings.
   - Follow-up on registration for those who have not yet completed the process.

**Action Items:**
- Steve to set up a spreadsheet for tracking participant roles and contributions.
- Participants to raise issues and provide feedback on the GitHub repository.
- Schedule and conduct separate meetings for technical and policy teams.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Recognition of the interest and engagement from various stakeholders, including presentations to the OECD, GS1 Global Forum, and the European Commission.
- Encouragement for continued collaboration and contributions to ensure the success of Recommendation 49.


## 2023-12-14 Meeting Summary

**Date:** December 14, 2023

**Participants:**
- Steve
- Virginia Cram Martos
- Rakesh
- Franziska
- Mathieu
- Charles Arden-Clark
- Others

**Agenda:**
1. Introductions
2. Overview and Communication of Recommendation 49
3. Revised Document Structure
4. Call for Contributors and Next Steps

**Key Points:**

1. **Introductions:**
   - New participants, including Virginia, Rakesh, Franziska, Mathieu, and Charles, introduced themselves and shared their backgrounds and expertise.

2. **Overview and Communication:**
   - Steve shared a video explaining Recommendation 49 and its goals, emphasizing anti-greenwashing through supply chain transparency.
   - Participants were encouraged to watch and share the video for better understanding and feedback.

3. **Revised Document Structure:**
   - The document is divided into three sections: a high-level executive summary, detailed guidelines for implementation, and an annex for additional information.
   - The executive summary will cover the introduction, scope, target audience, purpose and benefits, challenges, recommendations, and an opportunity for implementers to make a pledge.
   - The guidelines section will detail business drivers, design principles, technical challenges, and the actual protocol, including costs, incentives, and implementation guidance.
   - A GitHub repository has been created for detailed technical information and specifications to support the policy document.

4. **Call for Contributors:**
   - Participants were invited to volunteer for writing different sections of the document.
   - Emphasis on involving both business-oriented and technical experts to ensure the document is comprehensive and implementable.
   - A spreadsheet will be set up to track potential stakeholders and contributors, distinguishing between observers and active contributors.

5. **Next Steps:**
   - Spreadsheet to track participant roles and contributions will be created and shared.
   - UNECE to confirm the revised structure of the document.
   - Separate technical meetings to be scheduled after Christmas to focus on detailed content development for the GitHub repository.

**Action Items:**
- Steve to create and share a spreadsheet for tracking participants and their roles.
- UNECE to review and confirm the revised document structure.
- Participants to indicate their interest in contributing to specific sections.
- Technical meetings to be scheduled for post-Christmas to progress GitHub content.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Agreement to skip the meeting scheduled for December 28 due to the holiday season.
- Next group meeting to be held in a month, with parallel technical meetings starting after Christmas.

## 2023-11-30 Meeting Summary

**Date:** November 30, 2023

**Participants:**
- Steve
- Brett
- Kevin
- Benjamin
- Corey
- Felix
- Xinyang
- Nis
- Maria Teresa
- Stefano

**Agenda:**
1. Communication Strategies and Updates
2. Refactoring Recommendation 49 Document

**Key Points:**

1. **Introduction and General Updates:**
   - Steve welcomed participants and highlighted the importance of communication.
   - A project in Australia on agricultural traceability has successfully demonstrated the concepts in Recommendation 49, showing quick vendor adoption and implementation.

2. **Communication Strategies:**
   - Emphasis on the importance of effectively communicating the project to various stakeholders.
   - Discussion on creating sector-specific versions of the communication video (e.g., for critical raw materials, textiles).
   - Participants encouraged to share the existing video and provide feedback.
   - Maria Teresa agreed to post the video on official UN channels once updates are made.

3. **Feedback on Communication:**
   - Participants agreed on the need for various media to reach different audiences.
   - Suggestions included creating a range of materials from short soundbites to longer, detailed videos.
   - Brett and others emphasized focusing on the flexibility and scalability of the protocol.

4. **Refactoring Recommendation 49 Document:**
   - Discussion on aligning the structure of Recommendation 49 with previous UN recommendations.
   - Agreement on including sections like scope, purpose, benefits, and a high-level summary.
   - Inclusion of a cost-benefit analysis and discussion on inclusivity (small businesses, developing economies).
   - Emphasis on providing a flexible yet implementable framework that can be adapted for different sectors.

5. **Implementation Guidance:**
   - Importance of providing clear, implementable guidelines and schemas.
   - Agreement on using projects like critical raw materials and agriculture as examples.
   - Discussion on maintaining flexibility while ensuring interoperability and testability.

6. **Next Steps:**
   - Steve to restructure the document based on the discussed framework.
   - Participants to review and provide feedback on the restructured document.
   - Plan to engage with policy makers for informal reviews before formal public review.

**Action Items:**
- Steve to complete the restructuring of the Recommendation 49 document within the next week.
- Participants to share the communication video and provide feedback.
- Maria Teresa to post the updated video on UN channels.
- Team to engage with policy makers for informal reviews of the draft document before the end of January.

**Closing Remarks:**
- Agreement on the next meeting to review the restructured document and continue content development.
- Maria Teresa emphasized the importance of involving policy makers early in the review process to ensure the document meets their needs and gains their support.















